#summary How to cross-compile Gray Matter on Linux to run on Windows

This document only explains how to cross-compile Gray Matter on Linux to run on Windows.  If you're interested in compiling _and_ running it on Linux or using a pre-built executable on Windows, you're in the wrong place.

Carry out the *Prepare* and *Download and Cross-Compile* steps on Linux and the *Install and Run* step on Windows.

= Prepare =

You need Subversion (to download the Gray Matter source code) and MinGW (to cross-compile Gray Matter for Windows).  If you don't already have these tools, install them now:

=== On Gentoo ===
  * To install Subversion, type: *{{{emerge subversion}}}*
  * To install MinGW, [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_MinGW follow these steps] up to and including: *{{{crossdev mingw32}}}*  For the impatient, type:
    * *{{{emerge -va sys-devel/crossdev}}}*
    * *{{{echo 'PORTDIR_OVERLAY="/usr/local/overlays/crossdev"' >> /etc/make.conf}}}*
    * *{{{crossdev mingw32}}}*
=== On Ubuntu ===
  * To install Subversion, type: *{{{sudo apt-get install subversion}}}*
  * To install MinGW, type: *{{{sudo apt-get install mingw32}}}*

= Download and Cross-Compile =

  * Type: *{{{svn checkout http://gray-matter.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ gray-matter/}}}*
  * Type: *{{{cd gray-matter/}}}*
  * Type: *{{{make -f WINmakefile}}}*

The Windows executable is now: *{{{bin/gray.exe}}}*

= Install and Run =

[http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/winboard/winboard-4_2_7a.exe Download] and run the !WinBoard installer and follow the on-screen instructions.  Copy *{{{gray.exe}}}* into !WinBoard's folder.  Run !WinBoard and, in the *{{{WinBoard Startup Dialog}}}* window, replace ~~*{{{GNUChess}}}*~~ with *{{{gray.exe}}}*.  The game starts, and Gray Matter defaults to playing black and awaits your move.  Enjoy Gray Matter on Windows!  :-)