#summary Relevant links.
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Chess Engine Programming =
  * [http://www.cis.uab.edu/hyatt/pubs.html Online Technical Papers] - In-depth discussions of rotated bitboards, lockless hashing, and parallel search by Bob Hyatt, the author of Crafty.
  * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MTD-f MTD(f)] - A !MiniMax algorithm faster than !NegaScout by Aske Plaat, the inventor of MTD(_f_).
  * [http://www.zib.de/reinefeld/Research/nsc.html NegaScout] - A !MiniMax algorithm faster than Alpha-Beta by Alexander Reinefeld, the inventor of !NegaScout.
  * [http://www.seanet.com/~brucemo/topics/topics.htm Programming Topics] - Overviews of various concepts by Bruce Moreland, the author of Gerbil and Ferret.
  * [http://www.frayn.net/beowulf/theory.html Computer Chess Programming Theory] - Overviews of various concepts by Colin Frayn, the author of Beowulf.
  * [http://www.gamedev.net/reference/programming/features/chess1/ Chess Programming] - Overviews of various concepts by François-Dominic Laramée, the author of Java Chess.
  * [http://www.tim-mann.org/xboard/engine-intf.html Chess Engine Communication Protocol] - How to interface an engine with an interface by Tim Mann, the author of XBoard.
  * [http://tim-mann.org/xboard/zippy.README Zippy README] - How to automate play on an Internet Chess Server by Tim Mann, the author of XBoard.
  * [http://www.cybercom.net/~zbrad/Chess/pgnxml/PGN_Standard.txt PGN Specification] - How to read and write PGN files (used to generate opening books and to save games) by Steven J. Edwards and the interested readers of the newsgroup rec.games.chess.

  * [http://www.ascotti.org/programming/chess/Shannon%20-%20Programming%20a%20computer%20for%20playing%20chess.pdf Programming a Computer for Playing Chess] - The paper that started it all (in 1949!) by Claude E. Shannon, the father of modern digital communications and information theory.

= Friendly Competition =
  * [http://mediocrechess.blogspot.com/ Mediocre Chess] - Follow the process of creating a chess engine.
  * [http://vicki-chess.blogspot.com/ VICKI Chess Engine] - The tale of a chess engine - from the very beginning!

= Fun =
  * [http://www.scottmccloud.com/comics/chess/chess.html My Obsession with Chess] - A comic by Scott !McCloud.