#summary Mission statement, goals, and quotes.
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements
[http://gray-matter.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/credits The Gray Matter Team]'s mission is to develop a competitive, pedagogical chess engine.  And, most importantly, to have [http://www.oreillynet.com/onlamp/blog/2005/10/ofun.html fun] while doing it!

=== Short Term Goals (for the Next Month) ===
  * ~~To nurture a community of hackers and chess players by:~~
    * ~~Cleaning up and commenting code, authoring [http://code.google.com/p/gray-matter/w/list documentation], maintaining a [http://chess-engine.blogspot.com/ blog],~~
    * ~~Automating [http://tim-mann.org/ics.html ICS] play,~~
    * ~~Setting up a testing box~~ to run on [http://www.freechess.org/ FICS], and
    * ~~Making friends.~~
  * ~~To generate/accept all/only legal moves (including en passant and castling!) and correctly detect checkmate/stalemate.~~
  * To ~~adopt a version numbering standard and~~ provide builds.
  * To earn a provisional rating.

=== Mid Term Goals (for the Next Year) ===
  * To implement ~~[http://www.cs.vu.nl/~aske/mtdf.html MTD(f)],~~ null-move pruning, and quiescence search.
  * ~~To provide evidence for correctness of search.~~
  * ~~For the engine to regularly checkmate its hackers.~~
  * To earn a respectable rating.
  * To identify a potential market and come up with a business plan.

=== Long Term Goals (for the Project's Lifetime) ===
  * To parallelize the move search.
  * To earn a master-level rating.

= Quotes =
This section contains quotes about Gray Matter and its hackers.

  * Smack my bishop! - Prodigy

  * I really like the simplicity.  Nice coding.  Easy to follow and understand from the get go.  Excellent work! - Joshua Haglund

  * Thank you very much for having created Gray Matter - I'm trying to create a basic chess engine to communicate with [http://www.tim-mann.org/xboard.html XBoard], and your code provided valuable insight! - Christian Korn

  * Calm down in there, [http://picasaweb.google.com/brainix/Raj/photo#5075555799065712114 Rain Man]. - a cute girl at [http://www.agorahouston.com/pages/agorafirst.html Agora]

  * I had no problems compiling and playing it on my Linux box.  It's awesome! - Kyle Fitch

  * Gray matters! - Kati Freeman

  * Thanks!  In fact, your implementation caught some bugs in my pseudocode for ttables that we're now "hashing out", as it were, on our course email list.  So thanks much! - [http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~bart/ Bart Massey], Assoc. Prof. Computer Science, Portland State University

  * Well done on writing your chess engine.  I have already downloaded it and played with it a little bit - very nice. - [http://homepages.tesco.net/henry.ablett/jims.html Jim Ablett]