#summary Chess engine terms and definitions.
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

= Details =

  * *Alpha-Beta Pruning* - For a more detailed description, [AlphaBeta click here].

  * *!BitBoard* - A data structure, an unsigned 64-bit integer, in which each bit corresponds to a square on the chess board.  A single !BitBoard can't represent the entire state of the board.  A single bit can only hold a value of 0 or 1 - enough to describe the absence or presence of a piece on a square, but not enough to describe the piece's color or type.  Therefore, we need 12 !BitBoards to represent the entire state of the board: white pawns, white knights, white bishops, white rooks, white queens, white kings, black pawns, black knights, black bishops, black rooks, black queens, and black kings.

  * *Branching Factor* - The number of moves that the player on move has in a given position.

  * *!MiniMax* -

  * *Ply* - One move by one player.  The ply is used as a unit of depth.  For example, at the start of a game, a move tree that's 4 plies deep consists of white's possible moves, black's possible responses, white's possible counter-responses, and black's possible counter-counter-responses.

  * *Pondering* or *Permanent Brain* - What the engine does when its opponent is on move.  For a more detailed description, [Pondering click here].

  * *Principal Variation* or *PV* - A series of best moves from the current position to a given depth.  The PV always begins with a move for the color on move.  For example, at the start of the game, the PV consists of white's best move, black's best response, white's best counter-response, black's best counter-counter-response, and so on.

  * *Thinking* - What the engine does when it's on move.

  * *Transposition Table* -