#WIN32 Build Development

= Introduction =

I've given up on using MinGW to cross-compile from Linux to Win32.  This is mainly because MinGW doesn't support Pthreads.  "Luckily," there's an [http://sourceware.org/pthreads-win32/ open source Pthreads implementation for Win32].  I've successfully used it with Dev-C++ on a Win32 box to resolve that issue.  Now for the nasty:

= Details =

*uint64_t*:  Win32 doesn't include these types by default, so an #ifdef is needed in types.h, if uint64_t isn't defined, to #include <stdint.h>.

*Update*:  We've just included stdint.h no matter what.  It's probably implicitly included under Linux, and that's probably why those types are defined under Linux, so explicitly including it probably wouldn't hurt anything.

*class search*:  There's a not-so-obvious recursive dependency with respect to 'class search' and 'class xboard'.  They both depend on each other's declaration.  I started with a simple forward declaration of 'class search' in xboard.h, but that didn't resolve the issue.  I then completely re-hauled the include system to be more "parallel" - instead of including everything in gray.h.  This actually worked.  Before you start getting the tar and feathers, I decided I had changed too much to be acceptable, so I'm back with the original layout and dependency problem.  Why on earth this doesn't occur on Linux is beyond me.  I'm thinking we need to put all the classes in a "namespace gray", because this might be caused by generic naming of classes.  "class search" isn't exactly unique.

*Update*:  We've gone with Doug's re-haul.  It seems to work beautifully.  Oh, we've also tarred and feathered Doug.

*More Issues*?  We haven't resolved the recursive dependency issue yet, so who knows what else needs to be done to get a Windows port.  ;-)